# AngularToDo
Angular ToDo Project by using Arrays

When I first started learning Angular 2 in VS2015 (Around Oct 2016), there weren't many tutorials about integrating VS2015 and ng2.  Since my main background is C#.Net, I prefer to use VS2015 rather than other IDEs.  

During the learning phase of ng2, I did struggle with the new ecosystems and terms such as node_modules, gulp, npm, systemjs, webpacks, etc.  I was completely overwhelmed by these terms and didn't know where to start and what to learn.  Kept watching videos and reading tutorials to understand these.  The problem is that there are so many ways to develop and compile ng2 and there is no simple way as I did in c# or .Net core.

Somes use systemjs, somes use webpacks, somes use Angular2CLI to compile and start, somes use Gulps to monitor and transfer files, somes use tsconfig.ts to compile, etc and I was completely lost in these multiple ways to achieve the same goal and couldn't decide which way is the best to follow.  Since there is no standard official template from Microsoft to develop a ng2 app in VS2015, it was quite a huge learning curve for me to pick up this technology.

So, I decided to create the real simple app in VS2015, rather than multiple 'hello world' ng2 app tutorials available on the Internet.

Hope it helps you in learning ng2 in VS2015.

<h2>Brief</h2>
This project will contain all basic CRUD activities for todo items by using in-memory array list of Todo Objects.

The followings are the design decisions and explanations of the difficulties and barriers I faced during early days of ng2.

<h2>SystemJs or WebPack?</h2>
These tools are used to include generated js files and node libraries we use for the project.  When you deploy the project, it's better to use webpack because it will combine/bundle your multiple files into smaller files and you just need to add the generated files in your project.  But for this project, I used SystemJs for the simplicity.  

<h2>How to generate the Typescript Files to Javascript Files</h2>
If you want to automatically compile and generate the js files, you need to set it up in 'tsconfig.json' with <pre>"compileOnSave": true</pre>.

The js files can also be manually generated by using the <b>Build</b> command in VS2015.

We can also define where we want to push our files by using <pre>"outDir": "wwwroot/app/"</pre>

Please note that you can also compile .ts and generate .js files by using gulp too (it is used in some tutorials).

<h2>Should I develop ts files in wwwroot or outside of wwwroot?</h2>
This is where I was stuck.  Since, most ng2 tutorials are not using vs2015, they don't have wwwroot.  So, they can keep both js, ts and html files in the single place.

Some said we can put it in wwwroot.  Some said it's better to put it outside of wwwroot and generated js files can still be linked by using FileProvider in Startup.cs.  

I did every option I see on the Internet and IMO, I prefer to put ts files outside of wwwroot.  It's easy to clear/remove the generated /app/ folder if you separate generated js files and original ts files.

<h2>Gulpfile.js</h2>
This is where you can set up to clean the generated files.  You can also set up the Watch feature to Copy html files whenever you changed it and copy node_modules, angular files to the wwwroot.

You can also wire these Gulp commands with VS2015 commands such as build, prebuild, postbuild, etc.

Last but not least, please remember to disable the cache feature of your browser to view the latest changes.  Sometimes, Browsers are loading the old js/html files and you will end up scratching your head figuring why it's not working.

<h2>Future Expansion</h2>
I will develop another version of ng2 ToDo Items Project with following features:
<ul>
<li>using .Net Core API features to serve CRUD activities of todo items</li>
<li>implement message component to display result messages</li>
<li>probably, google material...</li>
<li>And so on</li>
</ul>

